What Are Chimps?
Chimpanzees are apes. They inhabit steamy rainforests and other parts of Africa. Chimps gather in bands that number from 15 to 150 chimps. A band of chimps is always led by a male. A band whose leader has left will find another male to lead.

What Do Chimps Look Like?
Chimps have black fur everywhere but on their face. The skin of their face, hands, and feet is often black, but some chimps have pink faces. Chimps have long arms and short legs. They do not have a tail.
Chimps have very long fingers.

Male chimps have long fangs. All chimps have big ears on their heads. Their faces are flat. Just like people's faces, chimps' faces look very different from one another.

Chimps look very different from one another.

What Do Chimps Eat?
Chimps hunt for things to eat for breakfast. They like nuts, seeds, roots, and other parts of plants. They also eat bird eggs, insects, and meat. Chimps eat the same kinds of things for lunch and supper, too!

This chimpanzee is eating a snack.

Chimp Facts
Chimpanzees are smart and have big brains. Chimps use instruments to get things done. They use a stick to get termites or ants to eat. They use a rock to crack a nut and a leaf to get sweets from a hive.

These chimps poke a stick in a hole of a tree to get termites on the stick. Then they can eat them!

Chimps spend their days on land but sleep in trees. When a chimp is ready to sleep, it makes a nest in a tree for itself. It sleeps there for only one night. The next night, the chimp moves to a new tree.

Can you see the two chimp nests in this tree?

Like people, chimpanzees like to hold hands and hug. They like to kiss other chimps. If a band of chimps finds a baby chimp who does not have a mother or father, the chimps will add the baby to their own family and take care of it.

Chimpanzees kiss and hug just like people do.

Chimpanzees help each other, just like people do. We can also help chimps. We should not keep them as pets or in labs. The key to helping chimpanzees is to let them stay free in the wild.

These chimps swing free in the wild.